Don't let the name fool you: a black hole is anything but empty space. Rather, it is a great amount of matter packed into a very small area - think of a star ten times more massive than the Sun squeezed into a sphere approximately the diameter of New York City. The result is a gravitational field so strong that nothing, not even light, can escape. In recent years, NASA instruments have painted a new picture of these strange objects that are, to many, the most fascinating objects in space.

Scientists can't directly observe black holes with telescopes that detect x-rays, light, or other forms of electromagnetic radiation. We can, however, infer the presence of black holes and study them by detecting their effect on other matter nearby. If a black hole passes through a cloud of interstellar matter, for example, it will draw matter inward in a process known as accretion. A similar process can occur if a normal star passes close to a black hole. In this case, the black hole can tear the star apart as it pulls it toward itself. As the attracted matter accelerates and heats up, it emits x-rays that radiate into space. Recent discoveries offer some tantalizing evidence that black holes have a dramatic influence on the neighborhoods around them - emitting powerful gamma ray bursts, devouring nearby stars, and spurring the growth of new stars in some areas while stalling it in others.
The idea of an object in space so massive and dense that light could not escape it has been around for centuries. Most famously, black holes were predicted by Einstein's theory of general relativity, which showed that when a massive star dies, it leaves behind a small, dense remnant core. If the core's mass is more than about three times the mass of the Sun, the equations showed, the force of gravity overwhelms all other forces and produces a black hole

Most black holes form from the remnants of a large star that dies in a supernova explosion. (Smaller stars become dense neutron stars, which are not massive enough to trap light.) If the total mass of the star is large enough (about three times the mass of the Sun), it can be proven theoretically that no force can keep the star from collapsing under the influence of gravity. However, as the star collapses, a strange thing occurs. As the surface of the star nears an imaginary surface called the "event horizon," time on the star slows relative to the time kept by observers far away. When the surface reaches the event horizon, time stands still, and the star can collapse no more - it is a frozen collapsing object.


lthough the basic formation process is understood, one perennial mystery in the science of black holes is that they appear to exist on two radically different size scales. On the one end, there are the countless black holes that are the remnants of massive stars. Peppered throughout the Universe, these "stellar mass" black holes are generally 10 to 24 times as massive as the Sun. Astronomers spot them when another star draws near enough for some of the matter surrounding it to be snared by the black hole's gravity, churning out x-rays in the process. Most stellar black holes, however, lead isolated lives and are impossible to detect. Judging from the number of stars large enough to produce such black holes, however, scientists estimate that there are as many as ten million to a billion such black holes in the Milky Way alone.

On the other end of the size spectrum are the giants known as "supermassive" black holes, which are millions, if not billions, of times as massive as the Sun. Astronomers believe that supermassive black holes lie at the center of virtually all large galaxies, even our own Milky Way. Astronomers can detect them by watching for their effects on nearby stars and gas.

Historically, astronomers have long believed that no mid-sized black holes exist.  However, recent evidence from Chandra, XMM-Newton and Hubble strengthens the case that mid-size black holes do exist. One possible mechanism for the formation of supermassive black holes involves a chain reaction of collisions of stars in compact star clusters that results in the buildup of extremely massive stars, which then collapse to form intermediate-mass black holes. The star clusters then sink to the center of the galaxy, where the intermediate-mass black holes merge to form a supermassive black hole.



AbstractThe  gravitational  theory  is  the  most  accredited  theory  for  explaining  black  holes.  In  this  paper  we  present  a  new  interpretation  based  on  the  relativistic  theory  that  explains black  holes  as  a  consequence  of the  relativistic  speed  of  departurebetween  the  speed  of  celestial  system and  the  speed  of  both light  and  quantum  rays at  very  high  energy,  calculated  with  respect  to  the  observer.1. Historical  introduction to  black  holesThe  term  “black  hole“  was  introduced  by  American  physicist  J.A. Wheeler  because  everything,  inclusing  the  light, that  went  into  that astronomical  zone wasn’ t  able  to  get  out and  consequently  it  appeared  black.In  the 18th century  Laplace  and  Michell  hypothesized  for  the  first  time  the  existence  of  a  celestial  body provided  with  a  greatest  mass that  was  able  to  cause an  escape  velocity  greater  than  the  speed  of  light for  which  neither  light  was  able  to  resist  the  strongest  gravitational  force  generated  by  the  celestial  body.This  hypothesis  got  on  with  Newton’s  corpuscular  theory  of light  but  not  with  the  wave  theory:  on  this  account  the  concept  of  black  hole  was  abandoned.Some  month  after  the  publication  of  General  Relativity  by  Einstein  (1916)  the  black  hole  was  again  contemplated because  gravitation  in  GR  was  considered  a  geometric  variation  of  the  space  and  not  a  force.  In  1919  Eddington on  the  occasion  of  a  total  solar  eclipse[1] measured  the deflection  of  light  coming  from  a  remote  star  when  light  passed  near  the  sun.  He  deduced  that  in  place  of  the  sun  a  greatest  celestial  mass  should  have produceda  so  great  deflection  of  light  that  this  once  gone  into  the  even  horizon  wasn’ t  able  to  get  out any  longer.More  or  less  in  the  same  years  also  Karl  Schwarzschild  calculated that the  black  hole should have  possessed agreatest  mass  because  the  calculus  implied  a  smallest radius  of  the  celestial  body  (R=2GM/c‚)and  consequently  in  order  to  have  an  acceptable  value  of  radius  a  very  great  mass  was  necessary.It  is  also  suitable  to  say  that  lastly  a  few published  papers  have  denied the  existence  of  black  holes [2].  Future  further  experiments  will  say  if  black  holes  represent  a  physical  reality  also  if  already  now  there  are  many  evidences in  this  regard. In  the  gravitational  theory the  black  hole  looks  like  an  astronomical monster  that  devours  all  what  passes  in  the  proximity  of  its  even  horizon,  the  relativistic  theory  intends  also  to  propose a  more  friendly  explanation  of  the  black  hole.  * email:dgsasso@alice.it
22. Gravitational  theoryWhether  in  Newton’s  or  Einstein’s  gravitational  theory black  holes  can  be  explained  with  a  very  strong  intensity  of  the  gravitational  field that  is  caused  by  a  greatestmass.  In  fact  in  Newton’ s  theory  the  FGgravitational  force on  a  m  mass  in  a  point  at  r  distance  from  the  centre  of  gravity  is  given  byFG=  G M m (1)r2where G=6,67x10-11Nm2Kg-2 is  the  constant  of  universal  gravitation  and  M  is  the  mass  of  the  celestial  body  generating  the  gravitational  field.  The  gravitational  forceis  the  more  strong  the  more  M  is  great  and  the  more  r  is  small.A  body  with  m  mass  in  order  to  leave  the  surface  of  M  celestial  mass  has  to  be  provided  with  an  escape  force  Fe=maewith  opposed  direction  with  respect  to  the  direction  of  the  gravitational  force. In  order  to  calculate  the  initial  minimum  speed  (veescape  speed)  that  a  m  mass  has  to  possess  at  the  r  distance  for  leaving  definitively  the  celestial  body  it  has  to  beG M m  = -m dv (2)r2dt    Being  dv  =  dv  dr                                     (3)dt      dr   dtwe  havedv  dr  = -G M                                        (4)dr   dt         r2v dv  =  - G M dr                             (5)r2v2= 2 G M                                          (6)randve=    2 G M                 (7)rFrom  the  (7)  equation  we  deduce  that  the  escape  speed  depends  on  both  the  r  distance  from  the  centre  of  gravity  and  the  M  mass  of  the  celestial  body.    From  the  (6)  equation,  in  the  event  of  light  (v=c),  we  find  again  Schwarzschild’s  radius  R =  2 G M(8)c2
3In  this  theory  R  represents  the  radius  of  the  even  horizon  because  M  mass  is  concentred  into  a  smallest  volume  because  of  the  strongest  gravitational  field.Agraphic  representation  of  black  hole  is  given in  fig.1.ORFig.1  Graphic  representation  of  black  hole  in  the gravitational  theory.  R  is  the  radius  of  the  event  horizon:  all  what is  inside  cannot  go  out,  all  what passes  very  near  to  the  horizon (also  the  light)  is  attracted  inside. The  observer  is  in  the  O  point.In  the  gravitational  theory black  hole  represents  an  astronomical entity  whose  prospective  motion  would  have  no  revealing  effect  on  its  behavior. In  GR  the  gravitational  force  is  replaced  with  the  space  and  time  warp that is  the  more  strong the  more  M  mass  is  great and  consequently  the  behavior  of  black  hole  is  equivalent  to  a  suction  effect so  great  that  also  the  light  isn’ t  able  to  go  out.3. Relativistic  theoryLet  us  consider  an  O  observer  who  is  in  the  origin  of  the  S  reference  frame  supposed  at  rest  and  similarly  consider  a  celestial body which  constitutes  the  S’  reference  frame.Suppose  still  that  S’  moves  with  V  velocity  in  reverse  with  respect  to  S. Any  object  launched  with  speed  u from  the  surface  of  the  celestial  bodytowards  the  S  reference  frame along  the  conjoining  line  the centre  of  gravity  of  S’  and  the  O  point   where  the  observer  is  placed (fig.2),  has  with  respect  to  S  the  vector  velocity[3][4]v = u+ V(9)In  concordance  with  intensities  of  Vand  uthe  following cases  can  happen:1. V<u :the  launched  object reaches  the  O  observer  with  scalar  velocity  v=u-Vin  a  time  d/(u-V)  only  if  the  resultant  velocity  v  is  greater  than  the  escape  speed  of  the  celestial  body  ve=   2GM/R (v>ve).
42. V=u :the  launched  object  doesn’ t  reach  the  O  observer  and  the  object  staies  at  a  constant  distance  from  O.3. V>u :the  launched  object   doesn’ t  reach  the  O  observer  and  in  any  case  it  moves  away  from  O  with  speed  v=V-u  (this  case  is  represented  in  fig.2).S’rS                   V                                        u                   u+V O  2r2R dFig.2  Graphic  representation  of black  hole  in  the  relativistic theory  where Vis  the  speed  ofdeparture  of  black  hole  with  respect  to  the  O observer,  uis  the  speed  of  an  objectlaunched  from  the  surface  of  black  hole and  u+V  is  the  speed  of  the  same  object  with  respect  to S. In  figure  the  case  V>u  is  represented.  In the  graphic  the  black  hole  is  represented  by a  sphere  with  R  radius  which  because  of  very  great  distance  from  the  O  observer  appears  like  a  small  sphere  with  r  radius.  d  is  the  distance  between  the  observer  and  the  launch  point  of  the  object.  In  the  event  of  the  light the  uspeed  coincides  with  c.In  the  event of  light  or  energy  rays emitted  by  the  celestial  body  we  have  u=c.  The  following  cases  can  happen:1. V<c :the  light  reaches  the  O  observer  with  velocity  v=c-V  in  a  time  d/(c-V)[4]. 2. V=c :with  respect  to  O  observer  the  light  has  null  velocity  and  consequently  it  isn’ t  able  to  reach  the  O  observer.3. V>c :  the  light  isn’ t  able  to  reach  the  O  observer.In  the  both  cases  2.  and  3.  the  celestial  body  behaves  like  a  black  hole. If  during  its  motion  black  hole collides  with  couds  of  cosmic  dusts  these  behave  towards  the  black  hole  like  a  friction  that  raises  by  far  the  temperature  of  dusts  with  emission  of  electromagnetic  radiations  at  very  high  energy.4. Black  holes  and  binary  starsWith  reference  to  fig.3,  supposing  that  Vis  the  speed   of  the  bynary  system  and  that  the orbital  speeds  of  the  two  stars  are  smaller  than  c  (v1<c , v2<c),  the  following cases  can  happen:
5a. The  Vspeed  is  greater  than c  (speed  of  light  and speed  of  quantum rays  at  high  energy):  V>c.In  figure the  star  binary  system  moves  away  with  V  speed  from  the  observer,  but  the  speed  of  each  star  with  respect  to  the  observer  depends  on  the  reciprocal  position.In  positions  of  figure  star1 moves  away  with  V-v1speed  and  star2  moves  away  with  V+v2speed.  In  that  event  star2  certainly  is  a  black  hole  while  star1 is  a  black  hole  only if  V-v1>c.b. The  V  speed  is  equal  to  c:  V=c. In  that  event  star2  is  certainly  a  black  hole  and  star1  isn’t  certainly  a  black  hole  in  reciprocal  positions  of  figure.c. The  Vspeed  is  smaller  than  c:  V<c.Always  with  reference  to  the  situation  in  figure  star1  is  an  ordinary  star  while  star2  is  a  black  hole  if  V+v2>c. v2S2o2Oo1S1v1Fig.3  Graphic  representation  of  a  binary  star.  o1is  the  orbit  of  star 1  and  o2is the  orbit of  star 2.Bis  the  centre  of  mass  of  the  binary  star  system which  moves  away  from  the  observer  with  Vspeed.  In  the  situation  of  figure,v1is  the  approach  orbital  speed  of  the  star1  with  respect to  the  O  observer  and  v2is  the  departure  orbital  speed  of  the  star2. It  is  interesting  to  observe  that  in  the  relativistic  theory  the  binary  star  system  has  a  different  behavior  according  to  the  reciprocal  position  between  the  two  stars  inside  the  binary  system.Only  astromical  observations  will  be  able  to  confirm  this    behavior.The  relativistic  theory here  described  represents  an  alternative  way  with  respect  tothe  gravitational theory  for  explaining astronomical  nature  and  physical  behavior of  black  holes.


A mobile ad hoc network (MANET), is a self-configuring infrastructure less network of mobile devices connected by wireless links. ad hoc is Latin and means for this purpose .

Each device in a MANET is free to move independently in any direction, and will therefore change its links to other devices frequently. Each must forward traffic unrelated to its own use, and therefore be a router. The primary challenge in building a MANET is equipping each device to continuously maintain the information required to properly route traffic. Such networks may operate by themselves or may be connected to the larger Internet.

MANETs are a kind of wireless ad hoc networks that usually has a route able networking environment on top of a Link Layer ad hoc network. The growth of laptops and 802.11/Wi-Fi wireless networking have made MANETs a popular research topic since the mid 1990s. Many academic papers evaluate protocols and their abilities, assuming varying degrees of mobility within a bounded space, usually with all nodes within a few hops of each other. Different protocols are then evaluated based on measure such as the packet drop rate, the overhead introduced by the routing protocol, end-to-end packet delays, network throughput etc.